Okay.
We're talking about another man now, right?
Not De Quersi Bales.
De Quersi Bales.
That's at NYU.
Mm-hmm.
The other man was Alfred Perrault, who was president of the Eagle Pencil Company.
B-E-R-R-I-L-L, something like that?
That's right.
R-O-L.
B-E-R-R-O-L-L.
Yeah.
He had a great collection, and he had a
The finest collection of Alice, the original manuscripts.
He had maybe a thousand letters of the author.
Lewis Carroll?
Yes.
Thompson.
Charles Dyson.
Yeah.
And he had every first edition in every language, in every, in French, in Italian, Greek, wherever they translated.
He had all these thousands of them.
And he also wanted to give it to a library
where they'd give him a room.
So I went to, I called up Bill Bond at Harvard.
He came down and I brought him lunch.
I told him, it's yours for the, you can have it.
Here's the whole collection.
Just give him a room.
He said, we can't give him a room.
Because this happens more often than not.
Because if we start to give rooms, we won't have room for anything else.
And so I said, well,
So I left at Columbia.
How long ago was this, would you say?
Oh, I'd say eight years ago.
So I finally, I didn't know what the hell to do with it.
You'll excuse me for using it.
You know, here was the wife and the son, and Harvard didn't want it.
They wanted it, but they wouldn't give him a rule.
The Columbia one, but they wouldn't give him a room.
No, because Harrod wanted the books, but they wouldn't give him a room with his name on it.
Right.
It really came down to preserving it as a unit, as a collection.
So I went back to my old stamping ground.
I knew the dean of NYU very well, Dean Stone, and I brought him up to the house.
He lived at Tapierre, right here.
And I went down, and I found a little place there.
It wasn't a room with four walls.
It only had three walls.
It was open space.
But I remember putting the table.
I bought a plank to put it on the table.
And I brought the family down.
This was Beryl and her son and her daughter-in-law.
And they looked out on the park, and they were pleased.
And I said, we'll hang a big photograph.
You know, so they were pleased.
And so it went there.
You see, what you're doing now, what you're telling us, without really realizing it, is that you're doing much more than being a book dealer.
Of course.
You're not buying books or selling books.
There's no profit involved here at all.
What you're doing is good things, good works.
That's right.
And so even though you're not a collector personally, you are doing things with collections for future use.
I've not seen this anywhere yet.
I mean, am I on the right track here?
Yeah, yeah.
And it is a tribute to you that these people called you and said,
Dave, what can you do?
That's right.
And what do you say?
Let me think.
In many instances.
And so what's the satisfaction for you there?
Nothing.
I know that it goes to a place where it's going to be enjoyable.
Don't tell me nothing.
I mean, I don't believe that you would go to all this trouble to bring these people from all over the United States to go uptown, downtown, midtown.
Yes, and I spent money, my own money.
I can't believe this.
To get these books in a place
to make them accessible.
That's right.
So you keep them as a collection.
This is what book collecting is all about.
As a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, I'll tell you a story about this Datsun's thing.
There was a name, a name, a name.
Rich thing there, what did you just call it?
The what?
Datsun, you know.
Datsun?
What's his name?
Oh, I thought you said Beryl, I'm sorry.
No, no, Dodson was the man who wrote Allison one book.
Oh, Dodson, I'm sorry, yes, Lewis Carroll.
Okay, Lewis Carroll.
Lewis Carroll.
Okay.
There was a fellow by the name of Cohn that wrote two volumes on Lewis Carroll.
And Beryl wouldn't give him access to, uh, to, uh,
to the manuscript, to the material.
He didn't like him.
He wouldn't let him into the house.
He threw him out, you know.
That's a great story.
So Gordon Ray was very friendly with me.
I was very friendly with Gordon Ray.
I sold him since he was a boy at Harvard.
And when I got the stuff over to NYU, I called Gordon Ray, and he said, I'll get Cohen.
He'll go up there and get the letters.
And so he did, and he gave me a copy, inscribed a copy of the copy.
See, that is a problem when you have private ownership to the point where they will not allow scholars to use the stuff.
Now, one of the great things about the Scheide collection at Princeton is that it is used.
It's used.
They put it on Princeton University.
It's given them a building, though they own it as a family.
That's right.
They allow scholars to come in.
You have to demonstrate your need for the stuff, but then they let you use it.
Henry Folger was terrible like this.
Oh, yeah.
He would never let people look at his Shakespeare statement.
No.
And he wouldn't even make statements.
He just said, no.
And what do you think about that?
Then finally, Huntington kind of shamed him into doing it.
That's right.
Sure.
How do I sound?
Am I on the right track?
That's right.
How does my book sound?
The stuff, the questions that I'm asking you.
Very good.
Am I on track?
You're on track.
Good.
We're going to go to lunch, by the way, at about 1 o'clock at the Pleiades.
I've already made a reservation.
Oh, you did?
Is that all right?
I don't care.
It doesn't matter.
Well, we want to take you to lunch.
Yeah.
And a random house is going to take you to lunch.
So, anyway, where was I?
How long have you been in this building, in this office?
Eight years.
And from, you came here from where?
From, I was in, in 1929, I was at,
Carnegie Hall, and I got the name.
Oh, you were in Carnegie Hall?
Yes.
Now, tell me a little bit about this.
I think we have to know this.
I was on 59th Street at the time.
You said 1929.
This is 1928.
Okay.
So you were in business during the Great Boom.
I was in business during the Great Boom.
I was in business in the Great Depression.
I went to see a friend of mine, a lawyer down at 165 Broadway.
And while I was being announced by the secretary outside that idea, Jimmy Rosenberg,
was coming out, and he saw me.
He said, Dave, you're just the man I want to see.
He said to the girl, he says, tell Ralph that I'm taking Dave with me.
We got into a taxi, went up to the Asta Hotel.
We had lunch.
There I met another man, but the name of Simon.
They had bought Carnegie Hall.
And they didn't want a hamburger stand on the corner.
What a great story, you know.
This was just a quick fortune then.
You happened to be there.
And so I was doing all right.
I had three or four hundred thousand dollars in the bank and I was pretty good then.
And they took me up there and they said, look, you can have the place, make the rent very reasonable, thousand dollars a month.
Of course this is 1928 though.
I had a street level, and they put in a marble staircase downstairs, and I have pictures of it here somewhere.
Big, it's a tremendous place.
And it took me a year and a half to build it.
I had everything made of walnut.
It was the finest bookshop in America at that time.
And I opened October 18th.
And the crash came October 29th.
My God.
What happened?
Well, I lost every dollar I had.
I was there for four years.
I had a 10-year lease.
And I just couldn't stay there any longer, you know.
So I came back to 59th Street.
And I was there at 140 for 50 years.
I pay $30,000 a year, then they raise it to $50,000.
So I said, look.
We're talking about 1933-34 now, right?
That's right.
Yeah.
And so then I had a staff, five, six people.
One of the men that was with me, I have a picture of him right there.
And he got a stroke and I was alone and I said, the hell with this.
Why do I need this big headache or pain?
50,000 a year.
50,000.
So I came here eight years ago, eight, nine years ago.
Never had any thoughts about retiring, I gather.
No, I don't want to retire.
Well, should I retire?
I have a lot of fun.
I have interesting people that know me.
As a matter of fact, some of them called me this morning to wish me a Happy New Year, some people that I've known.
And so this is my story of my life.
Wonderful.
I bet there's been some stories written about you in some of the New York newspapers that I use.
Yes, yes, I have some here.
They don't.
Those are stories, you know.
Well, I'd like to see some of them.
Not from you, but I imagine you've been in the New York Times.
I've been in the New York Times.
If I were to check with the live movies.
I had Whitman wrote a poem, a very famous poem.
And I bought, many years ago I had this collector in Chicago.
The original one is in the Library of Congress, which finally gave them.
But this man wanted a copy of it.
Oh, Captain, my captain.
So I found one lady having one in California, San Francisco.
And I wrote to her, and I called her on the floor, and I made an arrangement to buy it for $10,000.
But she said, I don't want to come to New York.
I'll meet you in Cincinnati.
So I said, why Cincinnati?
Why don't you come to New York?
No, I'll meet you in Cincinnati.
I said, how am I going to know?
She said, I'll be wearing a red coat.
So I come to the station to go to Cincinnati.
I got to the station.
I looked around for a woman in her earth coat.
She's got a package under her arm.
Sure enough, it was in a paper bag.
There it was in a frame.
I looked at it.
It was all right.
I had a check in my pocket, and I gave her the check.
She went away, and I went back to New York.
Now, how long ago was this?
Oh, this must be 20 years ago.
Did you fly out or take a train?
I flew out.
I used to fly all over.
How did she come in?
She flew in?
She flew in, yeah.
And so she, so I sold it.
I sold it.
And in his sale, it brought $15,000 in the Sang sale.
Which sale?
Sang.
Oh, that's Sang.
You mentioned it before, right?
About three years ago, one came up in Doyle.
And it had a letter.
from to Whitman, asking him to write out the poem.
And Whitman answered back, said, I'll charge you $2 for writing out the poem and $10 for leaves of grass, if you want $10 for leaves of grass.
So that came up.
I bet that did pretty good.
I get a telephone call from a very prominent woman here.
I don't want to mention any names.
She said there were two items.
There was this item and then there was another Lincoln manuscript.
She said, how much would it take to buy those two items?
I began to figure out.
So I said, I don't know, three or four hundred thousand dollars, so you got it.
But this is the, since you came, you must buy the first one, the manuscript.
This is a woman now.
I don't want to know her name, but this is a woman.
This is interesting because women, they tell us, aren't really that important collectors.
She said, that I must add.
So I went to the sale, and this guy, what's his name, this from Fifth Avenue?
Malcolm Forbes.
Malcolm Forbes ran me up, and I paid $90,000 for it.
He told me not to come back without it.
I had $300 and something.
So you had an open check, a blank check, they say.
So I had to pay.
I'm surprised Forbes dropped out, because he's got a reputation.
Then I ran him up on the second one, because I had $300,000, and I only spent $90,000.
So I ran it up to $240,000 for the other thing, and Forbes bought it.
But she was very happy.
And she said, send it up to Brown.
Brown University.
John Carter Brown?
John Carter Brown.
That's where it is.
That's very interesting.
Without knowing who the woman is, that's quite a noble thing to do, isn't it?
She was willing to spend $300,000 not for herself.
No.
But she wanted that specific item, and then what she got is.
Well, because it was too a relative of hers.
The letter was a relative.
I see.
So that's where it is.
So that's how the times wrote it up, you know.
They did.
Yes.
But, I mean, those are the things that happen.
You know, you've got to make things.
How about disappointments, the ones that have gone away?
Can you think of any of those?
Oh, yes, there are lots of disappointments in my life.
What can I do?
At the moment, that's what you think.
You know, there's no afterthoughts, you know.
It's the drop of a hammer.
It's gone, it's gone.
But there's one question I have in mind that I haven't been able to
and you may look into it.
I think.
Excuse me.
I'm back on again.
That's a personal collection or an institutional collection?
Institutional.
What institution is it?
It's the Bronx High School of Science.
Really?
It's a high school?
Yeah.
And they've got a collection?
They teach the Holocaust there.
But they've got a collection to support it.
That's very interesting, isn't it?
You were about to say something, and I was on my fingertips here.
One question I have in mind, you may look into it.
You were about to say that when the phone rang.
Oh, yeah.
I don't know.
I think there's a law.
Now, I'm not sure.
I'm not a lawyer.
The price of the item is with the drop of a hammer.
Now, when the English came over,
Sotheby's came over.
When Park Banay was here, they didn't have the 10% surcharge.
John Marion put it in, your friend.
John says he did.
Well, he's not telling you the truth.
Maybe I'm wrong on that.
The English, the Sotheby's came over.
Well, that's John personally, but I think Sotheby's put it in.
That's it.
Yeah, okay.
Now, I don't know.
If I was a lawyer, I'd dig into this.
I don't know whether this is...
I mean, after all, you buy something at auction, the drop of the hammer, $500, why would they pay $550?
Why don't they say, you know, well, see, they're getting 10% from the seller and they're getting 10% from the buyer.
Well, that's what makes the big business.
Yeah.
And when they go into competition for a big library, they can afford to take it with no commission.
Because of the 10%?
Because of the 10%.
That's sold.
That's already wound into the... It's factored in.
You don't like that, I guess.
I don't like it.
Yeah.
I just bought an old Parc Benet catalog track from the Jerome Kern II.
I give you the name of every buyer.
Really?
Yeah.
Now that I'm not talking about the 1929 Kern sale, I'm talking about one they had in 60, I think.
Oh, yeah.
Which is a very small one.
But I noticed there that John Marion's father was the chief auctioneer.
Lewis, he came up.
I knew Lewis.
I helped him become president.
I remember when he came in as a boy, filling catalogs and envelopes.
You're talking about John now.
I'm talking about Lewis.
John, I remember I used to push him in the baby carriage.
Well, he's become the biggest auctioneer there is, isn't he?
What do you think of the way the options houses have gone now?
They're almost kind of cut out the dealer a little bit, aren't they?
In a way.
They're going straight for the collector.
That's right.
And that's not such a great trend.
And that's not such a great thing.
I mean, because the judgment factor, you get a dealer, and you're hiring his expertise and his knowledge.
That's right.
And, you know, but maybe the heat of the chase might... Well, it's a...
It's very interesting, but I'm too old to do anything.
I just sit now and wait.
Let the parade go by.
You're talking about the auctions?
Yeah.
So you go mainly to, because you... Well, I buy things.
I buy things.
But it sounds like it's good theater for you.
I bought in the last sale, the bird sale for Bradley.
I bought four or five groups.
Really?
Yeah.
I'll tell you what I bought for the collection in the historical, not the Historical Society, but the other right next to it, the Museum of Natural History.
They have an awesome object.
It's supposed to be wonderful, yeah.
Yes, and I bought it for them.
Bobby Gillette wanted Bradley to give them the collection.
Well, where the hell would they have to house it?
For a collection like that, you'd make the room, though.
Sure.
I'm surprised Yale didn't go after it.
Yale has the co-collection.
That's right.
But it's nothing compared to what Bradley's was.
Well, Bradley's was supposedly better than anything in an institution.
Right.
Better than any institution is.
Which is unbelievable.
Right.
Right?
Yeah.
Go ahead.
We could probably go earlier for dinner.
I made it 1 o'clock, because I know you said you'd like to keep your store open until noon.
No, I will leave here at 12 o'clock.
Okay, you sure?
I made a reservation for 1 o'clock.
Don't worry.
But they know you're down here, right?
Yeah.
I go there anytime.
Good.
I got so many questions I want to ask you.
Go ahead.
And I just hope that today's, if we don't get it all in today, are you going to mind if I come down again and talk to you another time?
No, I don't mind anytime.
My wife is very involved in this.
Can you think of anything that you'd like that we haven't covered that I... Would you like to ask me anything?
Don't be back here.
I wouldn't bite you.
Now tell me a little bit, if you don't mind.
Now can I also... I'll just shut this off for a second.
Geez, where was I?
I had so many different categories here.
We talk about what drives people to become collectors.
I'm interested, Roger Stoddard, I don't know if you're Roger, at the Houghton Library at Harvard.
Yeah.
He said he'd be just as interested to know why people stop collecting, why they lose interest.
And he mentioned Hornblatt, for instance, as one example.
He didn't.
Who?
Harrison Hornblatt, you know.
Oh, yeah, you, Harrison, very well.
And he didn't actually mention Hornblood.
I think he mentioned some guy from Providence who used to collect Shakespeare stuff.
Some fellow from Rhode Island, I guess, who used to collect Shakespeare stuff.
And I forget his name right now.
But I guess Arthur Houghton would be another example, wouldn't he, of a guy who just put together a wonderful collection?
Jerome Kern would be an example.
Harrison Hornblood.
Do you have any thoughts on that?
I mean, you just get bored with the collection?
Maybe they're not collectors, they're accumulators.
Maybe that's part of the... But there were any number of collectors throughout the United States and Europe that were constantly buying.
I mean, you know, you mentioned two or three, but there are several hundred people who are buying, but also selling.
Also selling.
The true collector then...
You made the distinction earlier, an accumulator and a collector.
Right.
The accumulator is probably more disposed to sell than the collector.
That's right.
Now you've got it.
Yeah.
Are you familiar with, well, this gets into a question of ethics, I guess, and without naming, without even suggesting anyone in particular, but let's say you have a collector.
who purports to be putting together a great library, let's say, of modern first editions.
And a lot of the things that he gets, he gets with the understanding that his goal is to create a library that he will give, let's say, to the New York Public Library.
And then down the road he decides, I've changed my mind and where to sell it.
But do you think you still have a responsibility to the person you acquired it from in the first place?
No.
That's his own property.
You have no responsibility.
If you buy from me and say that you're going to give it to Brandeis, that doesn't mean to say that if you don't give it to Brandeis, that you've broken the law or something.
I had a man in Chicago who many years ago, when Brandeis started,
I was very friendly with Abe, very close.
When they started, they were really poor.
I mean, you know, the library started where the stables were and the manure was still on the floor.
There was a man in Chicago who said he was very Jewish conscious.
And he said to me that he'd like to establish a Jewish, for the library, a Jewish collection for Brandeis.
And so, I remember buying a collection of Hebrew manuscripts.
I think $20,000, I think, somewhere about that.
So he paid for it, and I sent him up to Brandeis.
And he sent him other things.
But he didn't realize that Brandeis was not a particularly Jewish university.
It had physics, it had history, it had biology, it had medicine.
It was a true university.
It was a university, you see.
And so he stopped.
And he put up a building in Chicago.
And it's a little, a small college, a small... What's the name of the college?
Again, this is on a small scale what I'm talking about, how the collector actually creates a research, a body of... Yeah, it's a nice little, it's a nice little... If you tell me his name, maybe I can find out the name of the school.
It's in Chicago, right?
It's in Chicago.
I'll find out, I'm sure.
They were in the, he and his brother's brother died.
That's okay, I'll find it out.
We talked about the auctions again.
I guess it's a matter of pride now that you've attended every auction.
Well, it's both pride and interest and my livelihood.
Is it like theater for you?
I mean, to see the drama.
I sit in this big gallery and I
I see the clicking of the currencies up there.
I went to the Judaica sales, which was... Swan had that, maybe, no.
You go down down to Swan's at all?
I go, of course I go down to Swan's, whenever they have things that I want.
I don't call that a first-rate house.
That's a schlock joint.
I won't quote that, I promise you.
Okay.
But...
I went up to the gallery and I wanted to buy a very nice kiddush cup.
Do you know what a kiddush cup is?
No.
Are you Jewish?
We're Greek.
The two of us, we're Greeks.
That's all right.
I don't.
My sister converted to Jewish.
I don't hold it against you.
Your governor was Greek.
He's married to a Jewish woman.
I wanted to buy it.
It was a very nice cup.
Friday night, you make a prayer with Dwight.
This was a little cup about this big.
I gave my catalog away.
And he's a collector, my son-in-law.
He's got a pretty good collection of Judaica.
Silver and bronze and things like that.
Good collection.
And I did it up to $12,000.
He was away somewhere in the islands with his family.
So I thought it was enough, you know.
It was only about... I was thinking 50 years.
And... What?
I don't waste any time with those people either.
I'm back on.
You're talking about the cup, I think.
No, I'll tell you, I didn't buy it.
I went for $12,000.
I thought it was enough.
There was nothing else there.
There was a picture there I thought.
But I didn't like the idea of the picture.
It didn't appeal to me.
He was away, so I—but the cup I wanted to buy.
But I go to these sales.
There's something there that somebody likes.
Did you know John Quinn?
Well, he's a very important man in the history of books and collecting.
Here's a little thing that I got in.
In 1982.
Can I look at it?
Thanks.
The special collection staff of the United States Military Academy Library would like to wish you a happy birthday and continued good health forevermore.
You have been a true friend of the library, and not only has our collection grown from your generosity, but our lives have been enriched by the knowledge we have partaken from this date of 8 January 1982, Department of the Army, U.S.
Military Academy, West Point, New York 10996.
I'm just saying this for the sake of the tape recorder, and it's, uh,
Addressed to you, Mr. David Kirschenbaum, Carnegie Bookshop, 140 East 59.
That's when you're over in 59.
When there's a, it's signed by half a dozen eight people.
So it says your generosity.
Oh, I felt good myself.
And this is the government, of course.
Sure.
Why not?
Help them in finding things, giving things.
Well, what's your great satisfaction then?
I have a sense that... I have good satisfaction.
I'm happy with people.
Uh-huh.
And I get along.
I never had a dissatisfied customer, everybody that I ever had, you know.
Gordon Ray, I knew ever since he was a boy at Harvard.
How old could he have been?
He was maybe 20, 19, 20.
I've known him until the day he died.
As a matter of fact, I had lunch with him that day he died at night.
And he never questioned.
He came in that Thursday.
I sold him a letter for $1,100.
I put it down, and he looked at it, and he said, that's a very nice day.
Put it in his wallet.
He had a little briefcase, and I came back here after lunch, and I sent him a film.
Usually that's the way I used to do it, because it's always sent him a bill, actually.
And he died that night.
Gordon, what was his name, Gordon Ray?
Gordon Ray.
He was the head of the Guggenheim Foundation.
Oh, my goodness.
How about the fellow who was involved in the theater?
He just died a couple years ago.
What was his name?
He was involved with Aliyah Kazan.
You remember the guy?
Oh, yeah.
He was supposed to be quite a collector.
Years ago, I tried to make a collector of the motion picture people.
Talking about 1928.
I couldn't.
Why?
They didn't have any knowledge of it.
I tried to make a library for Adolf Zucker, who I knew very well, intensely well.
Really?
And I was up there.
I saw them a few things, but... They weren't interested?
They didn't have the money, or they had the money?
They had the money, but they had other things, you know.
Geez, now we had an opportunity to meet up at Boston University.
Do you know Howard Gottlieb up there?
Yeah, sure.
Nice man.
Loved that guy.
He's put together a nice little collection.
And he had a dinner one night for...
George, what was his name?
The fellow who was married to Edward G. Robinson's ex, his former wife.
He knew paintings.
Paintings, very well.
Edward knew paintings.
Wonderful paintings.
I had lunch with him at the Hillcrest.
He was a member of the Hillcrest in California.
Robinson.
Robinson, yeah.
He wasn't interested in books, but he was interested, and he had a great knowledge of painting.
He was an intelligent man.
Very intelligent.
He was a sophisticated man.
Very, very intelligent man.
I had lunch with him.
Unusual for the Hollywood types.
That's right.
Unusual.
I'm trying to think of a guy on Broadway who wrote a wonderful book collection.
They say he died, and he had so many books in his apartment, they couldn't get him out of the apartment.
You know who I'm talking about?
Geez, I can't think of his name right now.
Remember they told you that story?
I can't go to faith.
Oh, the name is right on the tip of my tongue.
It was all dramatic stuff.
Lee Strasberg, maybe?
No.
Was he a collector?
Well, anyway, I guess it's ... I guess, I think focus ... Let's talk about John Quinn a little bit, if you don't mind, because he's very important.
Well, he was a lawyer.
But he was a patron.
He was a benefactor.
And he was a patron of the arts.
And he was a little bit on the crooked side.
Well, let me modify this a little bit.
You know, he would send Joyce some money, you know.
Joyce would send him a manuscript.
He sent him the manuscript of Ulysses.
Right, which Rosenbach finally bought, as a matter of fact.
Now, any paper?
One thousand three something, yeah.
You know what it would bring today?
Two, three million.
Four million.
Am I right?
Sure.
If Kafka's metamorphosis
can get $2 million, whatever it is, what would Ulysses get?
$1,000 at public auction.
And the president... Were you there?
Well, of course I was there.
Why didn't you bid on it?
Why didn't I bid on it?
If you hadn't got the money in your pocket, you don't bid.
This was 1922-23, right around there.
That's right.
What did you think when it went down for that kind of money?
What shall I think?
You told me earlier that Joyce, you couldn't give Joyce books away.
That's right.
So you're going to spend a thousand dollars for something that people didn't read?
The first book that Joyce was published in America was The Young Man, The Artist of the Young... Portrait of an Artist of the Young Man.
1917.
I knew the publisher very well, frankly.
He was down at the university place on 12th Street, 13th Street.
And I was around the corner.
I was on 8th Street at that time.
This was 1917, 16, 15, where I met Albert Boner.
Boner Liberate Street.
Oh, very famous.
Albert was a very personal friend of mine.
Knew him from up to the day he died.
Albert and I were close friends.
Used to come here every single day of his life.
Now, was he a book collector, or just friendship?
Well, we were friendship, but he was a great publisher.
And he had this book shop there with his brother on H Street.
And the other publisher was... They were very important publishing.
It was funny.
They were one of the best.
They did some Faulkner stuff, I think.
Sure.
I'm sorry, anyway, I interrupted on that.
But nobody wanted to buy these portraits of them.
I mean, they couldn't sell the damn thing, I mean.
He printed 700 copies, 800 copies.
And he signed them.
Yeah.
Now you see them in catalogs for $30,000 and $40,000.
That's a lot of money.
Sure.
Too much money for that.
But you see, that's how it is.
Yeah, but now you were at—but let's go back to the Quinn auction.
Now, you were there.
Yes.
Would you have bought it?
If you had the money?
If I had the money.
Were you interested in it?
Of course I was.
Was it on your checklist when you went there or something that you were going to... What do you... I mean... So you think that Dr. Rosenbach stole that after $1,000?
Well, I don't know whether he stole it.
I'm not suggesting anything criminal.
No, no, no.
I don't think he stole it.
That was the price.
On the other hand, he bought a document he paid for Buck and Gwinnett.
He paid
$52,000.
Gabriel Wells was the underbidder.
And he eventually sold it for some $5,000.
That's something.
Yeah, I don't know.
Now, blacked up one more.
Yeah.
He sold it to Mrs. Doheny.
Did you do anything?
Now, those are the two great sales of the 80s, Doheny and Martin.
Yeah.
Very good.
And there's Doheny in the red.
Yeah, which we have at home.
Did you have any dealings with her?
Some.
Not too much.
Well, that's an interesting story.
Wasn't she a farmer in a convent or something like that?
Something like that.
You know, her husband made all that money.
He was in the teapot-dome business.
Oh, is that right?
That's a big standard.
But then he indulged her love for acquiring things.
Well, she bought.
She bought like a drunken set.
See, that was an accumulation.
That wasn't a collection.
Yeah, because there's no focus.
No focus.
We have to talk about focus.
You get my point?
Yes.
And I think you could probably say that about the garden collection, which went down a couple weeks ago.
That's right.
There was a collection.
It was high spots.
High spots.
Right.
Well, Bradley had basically the material.
Focus.
He knew what he wanted.
He knew what he wanted, and he knew what he had.
And he knew what he had.
Right now, you got the end.
Going back to Greece, I spent some time in Greece, in the Greek islands.
And I found it very, very interesting.
The islands were interesting to me.
And the place itself was... I was a little bit disappointed, though, when I went to see the...
I'm sent a notebook.
That's in Turkey, you mean?
That's in Turkey.
I was a boy, I read about the golden... Topkapi?
The golden horn and the group up first.
I came out there, I looked at it, Turkey!
Everybody says that, unfortunately.
Because it's Turkey now, it's not the Greeks that went there.
You know, I was so disappointed, you know.
Now, how about Israel?
I imagine you've... Oh, I've been to Israel many times.
The first time I went to Israel, 1955.
I established two big libraries at the university there.
I mean, I could stop, right?
Where, in Israel?
Yeah, at the Israeli university.
And what are the names of the libraries?
That's the main library, the University of Jerusalem.
You established them?
Two big libraries.
Now how did you do this?
Well, they came from New York collectors and brought over from Europe, you know what it means.
The man died, and in order for the state to take a tax deduction, they had to be delivered here, not there.
So the authors here accepted it, and they shifted over.
My God.
Well, now let's go.
Okay.
You have people actually calling and you're doing business?
I'm doing business all the time.
Mainly my wife.
Passed away last year.
How long were you married?
67 years.
And how many children?
Two children.
Six grandchildren.
Sons, daughters, one of each?
What are their names?
I may as well get it on the record.
Well, my daughter's name is Francis, and my son's name is Bernard.
He lives in Sweden.
Really?
And he's the head of the university.
In Sweden.
He's here now, visiting.
I had dinner with him last night.
He's here visiting, and you're in the office today.
Well, he's got things to do.
He's got a life to lead, you know.
You've got to keep active.
That's what it comes down to.
That's all I've got to keep active.
Well, I hope your children have the longevity that you and your wife have had.
Were you born in New York?
Right here in Manhattan Island.
Uh-huh.
And your parents were from where?
From Poland.
Poland.
And when did they come here?
1980, 1992.
And what did your father do?
He was walking around.
Uh-huh.
Pretty impressive, you know.
What does a father do when he comes over?
The Greeks opened coffee shops.
And the others opened fruit sands, you know.
You must have some interesting stories about the old 4th Avenue bookstores and stuff.
Oh, yeah, sure.
Somebody just called me up the other day.
See, I used to issue catalogs.
But in the last 10 years, I haven't issued any catalogs.
How many catalogs did you do?
You must have numbered them.
80 years.
80 years?
So you had in the hundreds.
Sure.
You must have a whole collection of them.
Now, how about your stuff?
Where's your stuff going?
My stuff?
I have no stuff.
I'm giving everything away.
Well, I mean, that's where you are.
You look around, and it's a very... I have things like that all over the damn place.
I throw everything away.
But it's a very spare... Let's go have some lunch.
You see?
Oh, I've got that book, yeah.
It's a very interesting book.
Oh, you see, did he get this from you, this manuscript?
I know the history of this book.
To Dave Kirschenbaum, who made, I would know this book.
We have this book, who made this whole project crossable.
Thanks.
This is on the Nagel Journal.
He tells how he got this.
He couldn't believe his good fortune.
I bought it.
In here, he tells you the whole story about me.
I'm going to call him, you know.
Go ahead.
As a matter of fact, I was going to call John.
I thought it was on the floor.
I was going to call John.
He just sent me that.
Isn't that nice?
Eagle Journal, you say, came up in a little auction here in New York.
And he called me on the phone.
He read the description and he said, David, go over and take it.
John called me.
He said, go over and take a look at it and see what you think of it.
So I went over and I looked at it.
And I found it very intriguing.
He was a young man, young boy, I think he was 17, went into with Washington's army in Valley Forge, and the whole thing, and then into the Navy, you know.
Then he was in the War of 1812, and he was at sea.
Yes.
It's all in this journal.
And then he was taken prisoner by the British.
So I called John on the phone.
I said, John, I found it very intriguing.
He said, well, go ahead and buy.
So I think I paid $1,100 for it.
I read that.
I couldn't believe it.
That there are still great buys available.
Sure.
This was just recent.
I mean, we don't have to pay a million dollars to get something nice.
Isn't that what they're trying?
That's your answer.
$6 a piece.
$4 a piece.
Today they bring $2,000, $3,000.
A piece?
Yeah.
And this was 500 documents.
That's right.
How soon after the war would you say that would have been?
That was, of course, many years after the war.
You know, Hitler, the modernist, he signed a couple of Meisters, you know, a couple of them.
That's right.
So these documents actually went back to the prefure.
Preserving.
You say that's the important thing to think of.
is that i wonder if you could just elaborate on that a little bit she hasn't missed a word you say that you helped the historical society get some stuff for their their collection
You said you've known them for 60 years over there.
Oh, yeah.
Thanks.
Well, one of the ...